My turn to hand out letters. I am giving you an F.

Your curriculum is bloated with minutiae — it’s designed for test-taking, not life beyond the classroom.
You fail to see that my intelligence is an ever-changing river, not a puddle for you to stand in and frown. Your yardstick measures the length of your reach, not the depth of my abilities. There is no "me" for your standards to assess, there is only the act of my becoming. How can you measure such a thing? I come to you in chrysalis form and you hurry or delay me, never do you simply let me emerge. It’s either, "Hurry! You aren’t reading or counting in time!" or "Stop! You fail to meet standards."

No, I do not fail. You fail when you make me choose (from your multiple-choice answers) what the poet means when she says this, or breaks her stanza there. Bring her to me. I’ll tell her what her poem means to me and she’ll tell you (and your secret scorekeepers) that I am correct. I dare you. Go get her. Her name is Sara Holbrook. You used her poem to measure my intelligence, and you measured wrong.

Your education factory assembles each student in the same order, first this piece then the next. Units are assessed as they move down the line; the standards are high with little room for deviation. Those who fail inspection are stalled in production, the ones who pass are given certificates and sent out to market.

What happens to the defected units who fail your algebra inspection? Or those who wither from Common Core English requirements that demand repeated, tedious analysis of technical, figurative, and connotative meanings of isolated passages:

“Cite strong and thorough textual evidence to support analysis of what the text says explicitly as well as inferences drawn from the text” (Common Core RL10.1)
You get an F for killing learning. We arrive at your gates with insatiable curiosity for reading and puzzle-solving, for crayons and their power to create the worlds we imagine. We want to learn magic, how 26 letters of the alphabet can be rearranged to tell as many stories as there are people in the world. We want to work with others on problem-solving activities. Instead, school is rigid: “Sit down and be quiet.” “Finish your worksheet.” “When you’re done with that one, there are 50 more waiting for you.”