There is no learning by doing —no brainstorming ideas together, applying, failing, and trying again. Occasionally, projects are sent home. If our parents have time and money they mostly do them for us, so we can get As. Those of us without those kinds of parents do the work alone using stuff we find at home. At school, we see that our project is stupid and ugly compared to the others. We hate it, and ourselves. Projects should be student-led in class, not parent-done at home. But teachers have no time for project-based learning in class because collaboration, ingenuity, and leadership are “not on the test.”

You get an F for stealing time from teachers by giving them mountains of test-driven content to shovel. Under your regime, teachers have no time to engage us with creative lessons designed using their knowledge as professional educators — as experts. Would you, the non-expert, do this to a doctor? A firefighter? A pilot?

Why not make Betsy DeVos Surgeon General of the United States? Or let her land the Boeing 747 your eighth grader is taking to D.C. with 23 of his other classmates?

Class time shouldn’t be spent prepping for standardized tests that are written and scored by private testing companies earning billions off the mandates of corporations and public officials. You get an F for yielding to their lobbyists, and another F for driving talented teachers into retirement by forcing them to drill questions like this one:


“Released” question from Grade 6 Language Arts Exam. Source: Engage NY Common Core Standards
The correct answer (as any sixth grader can tell you) is: F**k Lightening Safety.

Will this be on the test?
By the time you’re done with us we want nothing to do with school-related things like reading, and verifiable facts. (Remember those, America?) Could the current apathy toward civic engagement, disinterest in truth, and low voter turnout be the result of your manufacturing facilities? Years of mechanical bubble-filling and rote learning killed our interest in everything but sports and Netflix. We’re barely interested in maintaining a democracy.

Your textbooks (produced by “a mysterious panel of experts”) have us memorizing that the Sumerians rose up with the Third Dynasty of Ur in the late 22nd century B.C.E. Someone needs to tell these experts about the invention of indoor plumbing, and Google. We’ve all got iPhones in our pockets now, ask us something thought-provoking — something we can’t Google. Test our reasoning, not our memory. We came to you curious, inclined to gawk at the mistakes and glory of others. History is a lit fire. We’re naturally drawn to its heat, and you smother it with bricks of drudgery.

You’re losing us. Worse, you’re shortchanging our humanity. Two-thirds of millennials don’t know what Auschwitz is. We’re living in an era of rising racism and anti-Semitism, but yes, do test me on random, ancient Babylonian edicts: If a man steals an ox he must pay back… was it 30 times its value? 40? Your curriculum is bloated with minutiae — it’s designed for test-taking, not life beyond the classroom. If you want to raise compassionate and knowledgeable citizens, get rid of the state’s “bargain bin” of disposable information and let the teacher deliver the gold. Elie Wiesel’s story about his survival as a teenager in Nazi death camps — is gold. If you give her time, she’ll have us read the book in class, not at home, otherwise we’ll huff Cliff Notes (a known neurotoxin). Then she’ll draw us into a circle and listen. We’ll have questions far better than any test could ever ask.